= LogIt
LogIt makes it easy to add custom logging to your Ruby or Rails
application and has sensible formatting out of the box.


= Usage

=== Minimal configuration

LogIt adds a class method to any including class to setup a logger method.
For example:

  require 'logit'

  class Publisher
    include Logit
    
    logs_to :publisher

    def publish
      logger.info("doing publish")
      # do stuff...
    end
  end

This will write logs to a publisher.log file in the current directory.

=== More config options

==== Writing to a specific directory

  logs_to '/var/log/publishing/publisher.log'

==== Using a different log method name

  logs_to :publisher, :log_method => :pub_log

  def publish
    pub_log.info("doing publish")
    # do stuff...
  end

==== Adding a progname to log entries

  logs_to :publisher, :progname => "Publisher #{Process.pid}"

this will add something like 'Publisher 1234' to log entries.

==== Configuring log rotation

  logs_to :publisher, :shift_age => 5, :shift_size => 102400

this will rotate logs up to a total of 5 files with max size of 102400
bytes.

==== Flushing each message to the log file immediately
  
  logs_to :publisher, :flush_mode => :immediate

The default behavior is to use the default file buffering.  Turning this
on will cause each message to be written to the log file immediately.

==== Also print to stdout
  
  logs_to :publisher, :stdout => true

This will print log messages to stdout in addition to writing them to the
log file.


= Rails

LogIt automatically detects if you're running in a Rails environment.  If
so, it will write to the Rails log directory and appends the
environment to the log file name.  For example:

  RAILS_ROOT/log/publisher_development.log


= Example log

 09-12-2010 10:27:10 INFO   [publisher 4607]: Publishing files to endpoint.
 09-12-2010 10:27:15 INFO   [publisher 4607]: Publishing completed.
 09-12-2010 10:27:56 INFO   [publisher 4621]: Publishing files to endpoint.
 09-12-2010 10:28:01 ERROR  [publisher 4621]: An exception occurred while publishing files: Connection reset by peer.
 09-12-2010 10:28:32 INFO   [publisher 4634]: Publishing files to endpoint.
 09-12-2010 10:28:32 WARN   [publisher 4634]: No files available to publish.


= Installation
== As a Gem

 $ gem install logit


== As a Rails plugin

 $ script/plugin install git://github.com/codemariner/logit.git



= Release Notes

[1.0.4]
 * Removed reference to file handler.  Allowing Logger to manage this entirely.
 * Added option :log_method that specifies what the name of the log method should be.
 * Deprecated Logit::Logger#flush as I can't reliabely garuntee that we'll have a proper handle to the underlying file.

[1.0.3]
 * Changed default date format to month-day-year.

[1.0.2]
 * Added :flush_mode option.  Set this to <tt>:immediate</tt> if you want each message flushed to the log file immediately.
 * Added :stdout option.  Set this to <tt>true</tt> if you want logs printed to stdout as well.


= TODO

* Allow users to pass in a proc or a name of a method to call to handle formatting of log entries.
* Add some tests?

= Credits

LogIt is written and maintained by {Scott Sayles}[mailto:ssayles@users.sourceforge.net].  

= Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Scott Sayles. See LICENSE for details.
